hello everyone in the last lecture we
have seen a few examples of NFA and we
have discussed in detail how to design
those nfas and in this lecture we will
be seeing a few more examples and we
will try to quickly design the nfas for
these examples all right so let's get
started okay so here we have a few
languages and our task is to design the
NFA for this languages so let's see how
we can do this coming to the first one
L1 is the set of all strings that ends
with one so how can I design the NFA for
the set of all strings that ends with
one so let me start with the starting
state which I will call State a a is my
starting State and a on getting input
either
zero or one is stays in a itself but if
the final input that I get is a one
if it is a one then a goes to the last
state or the final state which is State
B all right so when it ends with one it
is accepted that is how we designed this
but here there is a question that you
can ask why did I write 01 here I could
have written a on getting input just
zero it stays in a and instead of
writing one here I could have written
one only here a on getting input zero
goes to a and on getting input one goes
to final State B why I did not write
this is because if it was only zero over
here then the only strings that would be
accepted by this NFA would be 01 or 0 01
or 0 0 0 1 that means any number of
zeros followed by one and one itself but
there are even other strings that ends
with one like let's say 1 1 1 1 0 1 even
these strings also end with one and even
these strings should be accepted that is
why I wrote a on getting input 0 and one
it could stay in a and if it gets input
one it goes the last input one it goes
to B in this way all these inputs which
ends with one will be accepted by this
NFA okay now let's come to the next one
L2 is the set of all strings that
contains zero our only condition is that
it should contain a zero and the
position of that zero does not matter it
could be anywhere so I start with a
starting State a a is my starting State
and a on getting input
either 0o or 1 it can stay in a but if
you
see a zero if you see a zero then it
goes to
the final State B and even in the final
State B whether you get zero or one
after that it can stay in the final
State itself now why did I do like this
if it sees the input zero it it goes to
B and it could also stay in a itself but
in only when it comes to this B it will
be accepted so the position of my zero
does not matter it could be anywhere so
I don't care what is it starts with what
it could start either with zero or one
and I don't care it ends with what it
could end with Z or 1 but once there is
a zero then we make sure that it goes to
the final State B and it will be
accepted so here the position of the
symbol zero does not matter okay and
then the third one L3 is the set of all
strings that starts with
one0 it should start with one Z so I
start with my starting state or initial
State a
and a on getting input when it gets the
input one I will send it to the next
state which I will call State
B
and B on getting
input 0 I will send it to the next state
which is C and which will be the
final
State okay it will be the final State
and in the final after I reach the final
State I don't care what I get after that
let it be zero or one it stays in the
final State itself so our our only
condition here is that it should start
with one Zer so we make sure that there
are no other strings accepted here other
than one in the beginning and zero in
the second part so it starts with 1 Zer
and if it starts with one Z it goes to
the final state or accepting State C
after that we don't care what follows
after that because all the condition is
should start with one Z so this is how
we designed the NFA for this now let's
come to the fourth one so L4 is a set of
all strings that contains 01 so here
again the position of the symbol 01 does
not matter it could be anywhere so how
do we do this so first we again start
with our starting state which is State a
and I don't care what it is in
whatever I get in state a 0 0 or one it
can stay here but also if a gets the
input
zero if it gets the input zero it goes
to the state which I'll call State B the
next state and B on getting input
one it goes to the next state which is
State C and here I see that I already
got the input 0 1 and on that it comes
to C which should be the final State or
the accepting State and in see whatever
I get again whether it is zero or one it
does not matter so here we see that the
position does not matter a on getting
input zero it could either stay in a or
it could go to B but once it goes to B
only on getting input one it can proceed
so we see that we made sure that 01 will
be there somewhere in the string okay so
that is how we make sure so does not
matter what it is here and it does not
matter what we get even after reaching
the final State because here the
position does not matter the only thing
is it should contain 01 anywhere in the
string okay so that is how we designed
this okay and then the last one that we
have here is L5 which is a set of all
strings that ends with one one we have
to make sure that it ends with one one
so how do we do this we start with the
starting State a
and it does not matter what it starts
with it could be either zero or one and
a on getting
input
one it goes to State B the next state
because I have to get this string one
one and B also on getting input what
would it be it should
be input one yes on getting input one it
should go to the next stage which is
State C and C should be my final state
or
accepting State and here I should not
mention anything in C anymore why
because it should end with one one when
when it when it sees this one it comes
to B when it sees the next one it comes
to C so when it reaches C we made sure
that the last symbols were 1 one so if
we write anything more to this that
means that it will be something other
than one one so I got one I got one and
then I reached the final state so we
made sure that it will accept all the
strings that ends with one one so this
is the way we design the NFS for this
examples I hope it was clear to you okay
so since we have discussed this nfas now
I would give you an assignment problem
if you were to construct the equivalent
DFAS for the above nfas then tell me how
many minimum number of states would you
use for the construction of each of the
DFAS so here we have constructed the NFS
for the languages L1 to L5 now try to
construct the DFA for this languages the
equivalent DFAS and tell me how many
minimum number of states would you use
to construct the DFS for these above
languages so try to do this and try to
leave your answer in the comment section
below and thank you for watching this
lecture and see you in the next one
[Music]